What is model binding?
Model binding maps data from HTTP requests to action method parameters.

Explain the importance of appsetting.json ?
it helps to store configuration information like database connections strings, any 
application scope global variables, etc. 

LaunchSettings.json - The launchSettings.json file is used to store the 
configuration information, which describes how to start the ASP.NET Core 
application, using Visual Studio For example the hosting details like IIS etc

Appsetting.Json store the configurations which are required when your 
application is running. 

But Launchsetting.Json store the configuration which are required to start the 
application. 


Explain Dependency injection?
DI is a practise of providing dependent object of a class is injected from outside the class rather than the class creating using the new keyword
Dependency Injection (DI) is a software design pattern that allows us to develop 
loosely coupled code.
Loosely coupled code means that different parts of your program (classes, methods, modules) are independent and flexible, so changes in one part don’t force changes in another.

Why do we need DI?
by delegating object creation outside the caller we have better decoupled system .if we change at one place the changes are reflected across the application seamlessly
“Decouples the two components or clasees ” means loosening or breaking the direct connection between two parts of a program so that they can work independently
public interface IEngine
{
    void Start();
}

public class Engine : IEngine
{
    public void Start()
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Engine started");
    }
}

public class ElectricEngine : IEngine
{
    public void Start()
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Electric engine started silently");
    }
}

public class Car
{
    private IEngine _engine;

    public Car(IEngine engine) // Engine is injected from outside
    {
        _engine = engine;
    }

    public void Drive()
    {
        _engine.Start();
        Console.WriteLine("Car is driving");
    }
}
class Program
{
    static void Main()
    {
        IEngine engine = new Engine(); // or new ElectricEngine()
        Car car = new Car(engine);

        car.Drive();
    }
}

How we implement DI?
Create an interface for the dependency
Create a class that implements the interface
Register the service in Program.cs or Startup.cs with AddTransient, AddScoped, or AddSingleton.
Use it in a controller (for MVC or API apps)

Explain different ways of doing DI ?
Explain Scoped vs Transient vs Singleton?
Transient -Instantiates every single time service is injected 
Scoped -Instantiates once per request is made to server 
Singleton- Instantiates once in an application life time 

What is Middleware?
Middleware is a component that is part of the request and response pipeline in an ASP.NET Core application.
Middleware is code that runs between the HTTP request coming in and the HTTP response going out.

What is the use of Middleware ?
the user send request tot the controller , controller than invokes the model to access the data ,than controller applies that data to the view  and that is sent as a html 
Middle helps to execute the preprocessing logic before the request hits the controller 

How it Works in the Request Pipeline
Client sends a request → hits the server.
The request enters the middleware pipeline in the order they are configured in Program.cs or Startup.cs.
Each middleware:
Does something with the request (e.g., authentication, logging).
Calls next() to pass the request to the next middleware.
Eventually, the request reaches the endpoint (e.g., a controller action).
The response travels back through the same middleware pipeline in reverse order, allowing each middleware to modify the response if needed.
Client Request
       |
   Middleware 1 (e.g., Logging)
       |
   Middleware 2 (e.g., Authentication)
       |
   Middleware 3 (e.g., Routing)
       |
   Controller / Endpoint
       |
Response flows back
       |
   Middleware 3
       |
   Middleware 2
       |
   Middleware 1
       |
Client Response


How to create /implement middleware?
Implement IMiddleware interface in your class.
Put your logic inside InvokeAsync(HttpContext context, RequestDelegate next).
Register the middleware as a service in DI container.
Add it to the pipeline using app.UseMiddleware<YourMiddleware>().
Or optional we can use extension method for cleaner code 

WHAT IS REQUEST DELEGATE? 
Request delegates handle each HTTP request and are used to BUILD request 
pipeline by using RUN, MAP and USE extension methods. 

WHAT IS RUN(), USE() AND MAP() METHOD? 
USE - Use method will execute next middleware in sequence.
RUN - Run method will TERMINATE the chain. No other middleware method 
will be allowed to run after this.  
It normally placed at the end of any pipeline. 
MAP - Map method will only execute middleware, if path requested by user 
equals path provided in parameter

Why use startup.cs file ?
Startup.cs file helps to configure the DI and middleware
both the methods are called at the runtime  
ConfigureServices() - we Configure the Di -use this method to add services to the container 
Configure() - we add middleware - use this method to configure the the Http request pipeline

What is Razor ?
it is vieew engine in which we can write html and c# code together 

what is razor pages ?
it is a page-based programming model 
similar to mvc , but instead of having separate controllers and view ,the logic and ui are combined into a single file .

What is Routing ?
Routing is used to handle incoming HTTP requests based on the URL.
It is a process that maps the incoming HTTP request / Url to controller action 
Routing decides which controller and which action method should handle a specific URL.
{controller=Home}/{action=Index}/{id?}
{controller} → Name of the controller (e.g., ProductController)
{action} → Name of the action method (e.g., Details())
{id?} → Optional parameter (e.g., 5)

 WHAT IS CACHING IN ASP.NET CORE? 
Caching refers to the process of storing frequently used data in cache, so 
that that data can be served much faster for any future requests.  

WHAT IS METAPACKAGE? WHAT IS THE NAME OF METAPACKAGE 
PROVIDED BY ASP.NET CORE? 
Metapackage is a consolidated package of all the mandatory dependencies for 
a .NET Core project. This package is present in your application by default. 
Microsoft.AspNetCore.App is the metapackage provided by ASP.NET Core. 

WHAT IS CROSS-ORIGIN REQUESTS (CORS) IN ASP.NET CORE? WHY 
CORS RESTRICTION IS REQUIRED?
As the name suggests Cross Origin Resource Sharing – meaning the data or 
resource sharing between different or cross domains is not enabled by default. 
This is restricted. 
1. First case is when you want to get the response from a different domain. 
2. Second case is when you want to get the response from a subdomain. 
3. Third case is when the domain is same, but you are requesting from http and 
the sender is https. 
4. And in last case, if the port is different
CORS is good because of security reason. Your API is secure by default 
otherwise any external website can try to access your data.





